hi I'm Shelly young owner of the
chopping block and today I'm going to
teach you how to make corn chowder now
growing up for me every Sunday with soup
day my mom always made soup in the fall
in the winter time so they have a
special place in my heart and so today
I'm going to teach your recipe that's a
version of my mother's chowder so
growing up my mom always froze our bacon
and I will confess I think it's a whole
lot easier to do it that way
so if you have frozen bacon pull it out
and cut it frozen this quarter pound of
bacon and I'm just going to dice we're
gonna start browning it in a pan next
step in the chowder is to dice a yellow
onion this is a pretty large one you may
not need quite this much but I like a
lot of onions so I'm just going to use
it I've got my bacon in the pan on a
moderate heat right now as it's browning
I'm gonna take my onion
shut it most of the way down leave that
piece on cuts off I've got two stalks of
celery here I'm gonna dice these as well
next I'm gonna get my potatoes ready for
my chowder you didn't know that that is
what makes a chowder a chowder is
potatoes we're going to use a russet
potato today that is my preference and
feel free to use Yukon Golds or red
potatoes if that's your preference what
you want to know about how that'll have
a different result is the the red
potatoes in the Yukon Golds will be
firmer so they're kind of a firmer
sweeter potato and they will not break
down in the soup and that might be more
appealing for you I actually like the
potato to break down a little bit in the
soup and it adds a little more flavor a
little more potato flavor to the whole
soup so after my bacon crisped I went
ahead and add my diced onion and celery
now you can pull the bacon out and in
heat if you want to keep it really
crunchy you can add it at the end after
the soup is complete what I'm gonna do
now is add my flour I've got a quarter
cup of flour here all-purpose white
flour that's gonna thicken our soup
we'll saute this just for 30 seconds to
a minute
to take out some of the raw flour taste
and add chickens back this is a cold
chicken stock I always use cold it helps
to stop the cooking and prevent the
lumps I'm going to add three tablespoons
of cider vinegar I know that sounds a
little unusual but really it makes all
the difference in the world it's you
could also use a white wine or you could
even use sherry but the acid in the
vinegar helps to create a more complex
and interesting flavored soup I'm going
to add my russet potatoes now and we're
gonna let this simmer until the potatoes
tent are tender
so our chowder has been simmering
simmering now for about 30 minutes I
just want to check potato you can do
this with a knife but I like to taste
the potato then I can also just check
and see where the seasonings are right
now I have here fresh thyme about a
tablespoon of fresh thyme
if you're using fresh herbs add them at
the end they're very delicate they lose
their flavour quickly so we add them at
the end if you're using dried herbs I
would reduce this to about a teaspoon
and add it earlier on I've got two cups
of corn here this is frozen corn feel
free to use frozen corn it's a good
product you just really need to warm
them through you don't need to cook them
I've got one cup of heavy cream feel
free to use milk if you prefer if you
want to leave it out entirely another
thing that you might be able to do is
use a can of creamed corn
instead of some of the whole corn it
adds a nice creamy texture to the soup
this is salt so I'm going to add salt
I'm going to start with a couple of
tablespoons of salt you can reduce that
certainly if that's too much for you
this stock is very low in sodium
I do like quite a bit of black pepper
too so i'm gonna season that up and then
we're gonna let this heat through and
cook just for another five to ten
minutes
great so let me taste this for salt and
pepper
mmm plenty that's delicious and that is
how you make corn chowder
you